#Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) about Psi

##1, Introductory Questions About Psi:

###1.1, What is psi?
In summary, psi is the art of causing change and sensing things by direct exertion of mental focus.  There is also a great philosophical and spiritual depth to psi, which shapes the pursuit of psi into a lifelong path of self-betterment.

Psi includes all abilities that have been encapsulated under psychic abilities, including terms such as telepathy, ESP, clairvoyance, precognizance, psychokinesis, and remote viewing.  Most paradigms dealing with psi include an emphasis on manipulation and awareness of psi energy.

###1.2, Am I able to do psi?

An often recited slogan is that "everyone is psychic".  There is a great deal of truth to that in that every human seems to possess the potential to perform psi.  However, psi is a path which requires developing much focus, dedication, and self-awareness.  Not everyone begins the path of psi with these attributes, but everyone who continues to develop must develop these in order to grow in skill.

###1.3, How do I learn psi?

The first thing any beginner interested in psi should do is practice meditation.  In particular, those interested in the path of psi should perform focal meditation, which can consist of any meditation exercise in which the goal is to focus exclusively on a single thing for a long period of time (at least 30-60 minutes).  The skills developed in focal meditation are essential to beginning serious work in psi.  For more details on focal meditation, see this article.

After you have begun meditation, you should take it upon yourself to read as many of these articles on psi as you can, to get a solid background.  The forums can also be a wealth of information, as you can search for old threads on topics that interest you, or if there are no old threads on the topic, create a new thread to ask your question.

There are also extended courses on psi which are periodically offered at Veritas, which require you to fill out an application form and require a serious time commitment.  Until the next course offering, or if you are not interested in courses, I encourage you to practice psi as much as you can using the articles and forums as a resource.

You should keep in mind that psi is not an easy solution to anything.  It is a lengthy undertaking requiring much work, but it is a beautiful and irreplaceable thing, and it will change your life and your view of the world as you progress.

##2, Questions About the Nature of Psi:

###2.1, Why are there so many different descriptions about psi?

There are many different descriptions about psi because there are many ways to get psi to work.  There are a large number of "effective models" of psi which work perfectly well, even though they are not fundamental to the way psi works.  This is a natural result of the way psi functions.

Results in psi are usually considered to be related to a deep expectation or fundamental belief of success.  These effective models work because they trigger these deep expectations of success.  Different effective models often arise in different cultures, because there is different symbolism which is believed in and used to obtain the expectation of success.

###2.2, Is psi due to electromagnetism?

The scientific evidence says no.  For more detail, see [this article](https://web.archive.org/web/20130905044343/http://forums.vsociety.net/topic/4853.0).

###2.3, Is psi performed by the brain?

Intents in psi are frequently organized and formulated by the brain, but the evidence indicates that psi itself is not performed by the brain.  For more detail, see [this article](https://web.archive.org/web/20130905044343/http://forums.vsociety.net/topic/4853.0).

###2.5, What does the soul have to do with psi?

The soul can be defined as the part of the self which performs psi.  This part is sometimes referred to as will, but it means more than conscious will.  This part is sometimes referred to as self-awareness, but it means more than conscious self-awareness.  There is a deeper underlying level of the self beyond the brain which seems to be responsible for the actual performance of psi, and the term "soul" is often used to refer to this part of the self.

The term "mind" is usually used in an abstract sense to refer to the totality of the human brain and soul, consciousness, unconsciousness, and the complete self-awareness.  So the mind includes the brain, which can be used to formulate and organize the intent of what one is doing, and the soul, which is used to actually perform the abilities.

###2.6, If I visualize or expect something to happen, does that mean it will?

Expectation alone will not result in psi, belief alone will not result in psi, wanting something will not result in psi, willing something will not result in psi, and visualizing something will not result in psi.  There is more to it than any of these actions alone can account for.

Performing an action with psi can be considered the synthesis of a well formed intent, the energy to make the intent happen, and a third step of deep expectation in the soul which actualizes the event and makes it occur.  Understanding what these three components mean at an experiential level comes as you practice psi.

##3, Questions Relating Psi to Other Things:

###3.1, What is the relationship between psi, magick, and chi?

See [this article](https://web.archive.org/web/20130905044343/http://forums.vsociety.net/topic/4856.0) comparing these three arts.

###3.2, Can I be a Christian and do psi?

Yes.  I am.  I have made my peace with God, and I find that psi strengthens my personal relationship with God.  It is up to you to see if this path also fits you.  Here are some verses you may find inspirational:

"Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes in me will also do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I go to the Father."  --John 14:12

"And Jesus answered them, 'Truly, I say to you, if you have faith and never doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, "Be taken up and cast into the sea," it will be done.'"  --Matthew 21:21

"You will know them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thorns, or figs from thistles? So, every sound tree bears good fruit, but the bad tree bears evil fruit. A sound tree cannot bear evil fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus you will know them by their fruits."  --Matthew 7:16-20

"Lord, how does he who sees the vision see it, through the soul or through the spirit [breath]?  The Savior answered and said, He does not see through the soul nor through the spirit [breath], but the mind that is between the two"  --Mary 5:10-11

"Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit; and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord; and there are varieties of working, but it is the same God who inspires them all in every one.  To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good.  To one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit, to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another the ability to distinguish between spirits, to another various kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues."  --I Corinthians 12:4-11

###3.3, What does psi have to do with spirituality?

Spirituality is central to much of psi.  Psi is a path involving using control over the self to exert control over reality, and of using awareness of the self to gain awareness about reality.  These abilities are ultimately obtained by closer intimacy and awareness with ones own soul and spiritual nature.

##4, Questions about the practice of psi:

###4.1, Why can't I get it to work?

There are a variety of reasons why one might have difficulty.

The first thing you should examine is whether or not you are obtaining good focus.  Controlling psi requires a focused mind, and this is gained by practicing focal meditation.

If you are trying to make a change with psi, the second thing you should examine is whether or not you truly expect it to work in the core of your being.  If you do not, it will not work.  You need to learn how to reach in and change the very nature of your inner expectations.

If you are trying to sense something with psi, the second thing you should examine is whether the information is coming from your brain or from your soul.  Information coming from your brain is often called "analytical overlay", and is often little more than imagination.  An important skill in the sensing arts is learning from experience how to distinguish input given by the brain from input that comes deeper from the soul.  This requires practice.

And, in summary, you may simply need more practice.  Psi is not an easy solution; it requires extensive dedication and practice.

###4.2, How do I do aerokinesis, biokinesis, cryokinesis, electrokinesis, geokinesis, hydrokinesis, lunakinesis, pyrokinesis, terrakinesis, or *kinesis?

Let's say you were trying to pick up a bunch of stuff with your hands and move it to another location. Would you list the techniques as:

1. Picking up a shoe
2. Picking up a box
3. Picking up a book
4. Picking up a rock
5. Picking up a chair

Obviously this system of classification has no intrinsic meaning to the method of "picking something up". Likewise, for psychokinesis, the target of the psychokinesis has no necessary bearing on the technique used. There is only one psychokinesis, and there are two ways to do it. One is a direct form of psychokinesis, where something is directly changed. The second is an indirect form of psychokinesis, where a future is brought about without specifying the manner in which it happens. (And the lines even blur between these two.)  All of the abilities listed in the question are simply that.  If you feel that you are able to do one, but not another, then that is simply a psychological restraint that is holding you back.

For detail about how to perform kinesis, read the [following article](https://web.archive.org/web/20130905044343/http://forums.vsociety.net/topic/4868.0).

###4.3, What is the solution to telepathic or empathic overload?

Meditation is the often overlooked cure for overload. People being overloaded by telapathy and empathy are like a floating leaf being overloaded by the wind which directs its path. But if you are well focused and well centered within yourself, then you will direct yourself rather than being directed externally, even while maintaining the capabilities of empathy and telepathy.

A person with a psi shield is isolated from connection with others, and even the untrained can often sense something "detached" or "isolated" about the shielded person, and it makes them uncomfortable around the shielded person. In addition, upon the failure of the shield, a person who focuses on shielding is left with only a fragile inside. In comparison, a person well-focused by meditation has a certain charismatic presence around others, and an inner strength which can be used to face and work with the sensory input at will, rather than hide from it.



[Source](https://web.archive.org/web/20130905044343/http://forums.vsociety.net/index.php?topic=4857.0)
